All right, so continuing on from the previous video,
let's throw a local variable into the mix.
So, what we want to do is replace this getOuterName method
that we replaced in the last video with the code I'm about to paste in.
You can see what's happened there, I've created a local variable outer name
created in the getOuterName method which shadows the inner classes field
outer name.
All three variables are then returned from the method,
that's the local variable you can see defined in the method
and also the one that's actually defined in this inner class.
You see that on line 54, as well as the one that we've defined up here
on line 19.
So basically, all are returned as a string on line 46.
So, if we run this now,
you can see our output is now local_outerName outer
and e’s instance and then the same for the next line but with f's instance as well.
So, the lesson here is to be very careful when reviewing
code samples on the exam to understand the scope of a variable
being referenced when only a simple name is used.
All right, so let's summarize what we've talked about in the last few videos.
Firstly, an inner member class can't exist without an instance
of the enclosing class existing first.
Secondly, you can directly create an instance of the inner member class
using the new operator on the enclosing instance as shown
that was the e.new InnerMemberClass parentheses
that you saw in the code a few videos ago,
and that's where e is an instance of the enclosing class.
You cannot have any static members on the inner member class,
this includes enums and interfaces.
There is one exception to this rule that we saw,
a constant can be declared on an inner member class.
You cannot reference an inner class like an attribute of the enclosing class.
All access to an inner class must be through an instance of the outer class.
An eclosing classes members can be referenced
with a simple name in the inner class.
Alternatively, an enclosing class's members can be referenced
with the class reference and ‘this’ keyword as showing.
And the example was EnclosingClass.this.outerName that you saw.
And finally, the inner class can shadow
an enclosing class’s attributes
and the local variable and method on the inner class can shadow both an
inner class's attribute and/or the enclosing class’s attribute.
I want to pause here for a moment and review these two types of nested
classes side by side that we'll be looking at over the last number of videos.
Firstly, the statement - Basically the same as top level class,
just referenced using the enclosing class type
is true for a static nested class,
but false for an inner member class, not static in other words.
The next statement - Static members permitted on nested class is true
for a static nested class,
false for an inner member class with the exception of constants.
The statement - To instantiate you must first instantiate the outer class
is false for a static nested class and true for an inner member class.
The statement - Has direct access to the enclosing object's
instance methods and fields is false for a static nested class
and true for an inner member class.
The statement - All access modifiers are available (public, private, protected, none,
and package-private) is true for both a static nested class
and an inner member class.
The statement - All other modifiers are available (abstract,
final, or strictfp) is true for a static nested class,
noting that final and abstract cannot be combined as we've talked about previously,
it's also true for an inner member class, and again final and abstract cannot be combined.
And lastly, the statement - Nested classes can contain
nested classes of either type is true
for a static nested class,
it's false for an inner member class because an inner class
cannot have any static attribute, including a static nested class.
So as I stated earlier, there are three types of inner classes,
the inner class member which we've covered,
as well as the local class, and the anonymous class.
And we'll start looking at those in the next video.